# Day09_P02

Now, blocks are only relocated if they fit in a gap.

They are relocated to the leftmost gap.

# Naive / slow solution

I gave up on this, too confusing managing multiple lists... not performant either

Enumerate the list of blocks in reverse order.

1. For each block, seek the leftmost gap that fits.
   - If the block fits:
     - delete or split the gap that it fills
     -
   - else append to `unmoved_blocks`
2. Zip unmoved blocks, filled blocks
3. Zip again with remaining gaps. Insert to results with id 0 `{0, size}` so they can be skipped in the checksum
4. Final result is list of blocks and gaps `[{0, 2}, {1,9}, {0, 1}, ...]` should work with existing checksum

stretch goal: skip blocks that are larger than the largest gap.

# More intuitive solution

The structure itself should be contiguous blocks

```elixir
# 00...111...2...333.44.5555.6666.777.888899
[
  %{
    id: 0,
    size: 5,
    gap: 3,
    used: 2
  },
  %{
    id: 1,
    size: 6,
    gap: 3,
    used: 3
  },
  | rest
]
```

These are easily recombined to construct the final checksum.

As a naive solution I can move blocks by scanning the whole list of blocks

To move a block

1. find target block with sufficient space
2. set space 0
3. insert new node at target_block_index + 1 `%{ data_id: id, size: size, space: prev_space - size}`
4. Delete original block (careful as index may have shifted)
5. Add space to preceeding block

Each operation is O(n) and needs to be performed for every block, so O(n^2)

# idea, tracking ops?

To avoid O(n) writes I can do faster O(1) list inserts

```elixir
claim_ops = [{from_index, size, data_id}]
```

So moving a block means finding a gap where `block_size <= gap - sum_claims`

I can reassemble my memory by looking up all the ops for a given block, starting at block 0

For example, block 0 has 2 claim ops:

```elixir
# map of claim ops
# e.g. node 0 has 2 slots claimed by "9" and 1 slot claimed by "2"
# node 2 had 2 slots claimed by "4"
%{
    0 => [{2, 9}, {1, 2}],
    2 => [{2, 4}]
}
```

I can also track deletions for fast lookup

```elixir
MapSet.put(deletions, 9)
MapSet.put(deletions, 2)
```

Reconstructing the blocks from ops in a single pass...
`00992111777.44.333....5555.6666.....8888..`

Enumerating from block at i0
assign `remaining_space = block_space - sum_claimed_space`
First, check for deletion. If it was deleted, add the original `used` space to the `size` and `gap` of the preceeding element.
In the first example, 0 was not deleted, so proceed: insert block 0: `{id: 0, size: 2, used: 2}`
insert block 1 from op `{id: 9, size: 2, used: 2}`
insert block 2 from op `{id: 2, size: 1, used: 1}`
The last op in the list needs to have remaining space added to `size` and `gap`

Let's take block at i2 as an example. It originally had `size: 4, used: 1, gap: 3`
The preceeding block inserted was `{id: 7, size: 3, used: 3}`
increase by 1 `id: 7, size: 4, used: 3`
remaining_space = `gap - sum_ops = (4 - 1) - (2) = 1`
For each of the ops for block 2, insert `{id: 4, size: 2 + remaining_space, gap: 0 + remaining_space, used: 2 }`

For block i3 as an example, there was no deletion, and no ops, so insert it directly.

for block i4, it was deleted, so we add gap and size to prev block.

# Results

Best observed is 979 ms
