# Parsing the input

First is a list of rules

`{n}|{n}`

followed by a list of inputs

`n, n, n, n, n`

Each integer `n` must match all of the rules for n

# Brainstorming

If I check every input n against every other, that is O(n^2). Ideally each would be an efficient lookup in a map of rules.

Can I optimize this?

Compare orderings?
Rules: 1|4, 4|8, 8|12
Becomes 1,4,8,12
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12

Take rule pointer, call it `r`
Take index pointer, call it `n`

Starting at index 0, check if `rules[r] == numbers[n]`

- If a match is found at i, set n=i, r++
  - Proceed with r from n
- If a match is not found for a rule, we reverse and check for a preceeding match
  - A preceeding match means the input is invalid. Otherwise no match is an ignored rule.

The computational complexity of this solution is worst case `rules.length * input.length`

Preparing the inputs:
We need to construct an ordering of relevant rules. For this, we need efficient rule lookup:

```elixir
%{
    1 => [{1,4}],
    4 => [{1,4}, {4,8}],
    8 => [{4,8}, {8,12}]
}
```

How do we construct the proper ordering?
We can easily fetch a list of all rules, but how do we sort them into an iterable order?

- Since the input list may not be correct, the fetched rules may not be in order.

e.g. 1,2,3,8,4
would fetch

```
[{1,4}] + [{4,8}, {8,12}] + [{1,4}, {4,8}]
```

In this case, if I scan forward or backwards in the inputs as each rule is fetched, I would have caught the violation {4,8}.
So on average I am scanning half the inputs \* the number of rules, which is better than scanning every input for every rule.

# solution steps

Parse inputs to form a map of lists of tuple-rules.

- If the input line matches`12|34`, push to rules[]
- discard the newline / empty string
- Push the rest to input_lines[]
- Convert rules[] to a map
- Convert input_lines[] to `[[integer()]]`

Solve by scanning input rows, and validating each rule.

- Validation:
  ```elixir
  def handle({^n, x}), do: handle_right_side(x, inputs)
  def handle({x, ^n}), do: handle_left_side(x, inputs)
  ```

If no violation is found, find & return the middle int
If a violation is found, return 0
Finally sum the results and return the solution.
