# Day06_P02

Summary - Need to find every location where the addition of a single obstacle creates an infinite loop.

## Brainstorming

### Reducing the search space

Obstacles must be added to the guards path. An obstacle outside of the guard's path will never be reached. `5208` possible locations for an obstacle.

The direction vector matters. If a path is only accessed from the south (i.e. northbound travel), then for that cell to be an obstacle candidate, it must have an obstacle somewhere to the east (+1 on the y axis). Example:

```
.O......
.|....#.
.|......
#|......
.^...#..
```

We can identify 0 as a loop candidate because it is a northbound travel path with an obstacle to the east (y + 1).

### Confirming candidates

We can not naively check for "squares" because some loops are not square.

If any cell is visited a second time, with the same vector, we know a loop has been found.

## Implementation

Record the history for each cell in the path.
A list of vectors representing the direction of travel from which it was visited.
In our example above, coord `{1,0}` would have this history

```elixir
%Cell{
  visit_vectors: [
    @north
  ]
}
```

Adding the obstacle candidate and running the simulation, we can identify the infinite loop when trying to add another `@north` bound visit.

1. Run default simulation to record `visit_vectors` of the default guard path.
2. Extract each cell with a visit to a list of candidate coords (non-optimized)
   - Remove the starting cell, per puzzle instructions
3. For each candidate, validate it.
   - Set `can_visit` to false
   - Run simulation until a loop is found (trying to add duplicate vector)
   - Filter down the list of candidate coords
4. Solution is the length of filtered candidate coords list
